Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, we're going to be seeing
Dr. Belis Aladag: Eric McDermid and his
Dr. Belis Aladag: Cures report did show that he's been receiving Diazepam regular consistently every 30 days or so.
Dr. Belis Aladag: From a Dr. Brennan.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Last time listed is April 18. It also shows that he used to his last
Dr. Belis Aladag: His last buprenorphine eight milligram twice a day prescription from a doctor Haney was last given to him in August 2019 so ask me about those
Dr. Belis Aladag: Hi, Eric, how are you
Eric McDermid: I'm doing okay thank you for asking. What about yourself.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm good thanks for working with the schedule. I GUESS THEY HAD A LITTLE MIX UP WITH THE 11am vs 1pm. So thank you.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm so, so welcome. This is your first time with bright heart as your health care provider. Okay, so I'm Dr. Allah DAG and I I help people with any Addiction. Substance Use problems.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And. Nice to meet you and I have a lot of people who are struggling with like opioid use disorder. And it sounds like
Dr. Belis Aladag: You've, you've been you have that and you've been treated for it before. Is that right, right. Yeah. Okay. Um, so, and now what what makes you switch over. Is there like a change in your like insurance or like what or were you like, not good for a while now. You want to seek treatment again.
Eric McDermid: Yeah, so
Eric McDermid: In 2017 I moved to Florida from California.
Eric McDermid: I was on buprenorphine treatment. I started buprenorphine treatment.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Eric McDermid: So in 2017 I moved to Florida for two years and continued the buprenorphine treatment and I moved back to California in late 2018
Eric McDermid: around September.
Okay.
Eric McDermid: And I, I had my doctor from Florida still PRESCRIBING THE buprenorphine for a couple months until the new state law went into effect.
Eric McDermid: And then after that I went to my primary care physician to get the prescription
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Is that Dr. Haney by chance.
Eric McDermid: Doctor, he was the doctor in Florida.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Florida. Okay. Because what I have is
Dr. Belis Aladag: I have access. I don't know if you've heard of this. But there's like not national but statewide. There's a state database for like whenever you feel a controlled substance.
Dr. Belis Aladag: That we're supposed to look at before we prescribe anything control right we're kind of mandated to do that. So I kind of check that out for you and it looked like. Yeah. Dr. Ann Handley or Haney and it's like the last one. He gave you was August of 2019
Eric McDermid: Correct. So I my primary care physician referred me out to a doctor, Jonathan funk.
Eric McDermid: He prescribed
Eric McDermid: Prescribed Suboxone eight milligrams four times a day instead of the subtext eight milligrams, two times a day. And that just made me extremely uncomfortable.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah. Clean your dose.
Eric McDermid: Right, yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Correct instead of twice a day, you're doing four times a day.
Eric McDermid: Not. No, I don't. I only ever did two pills a day at the maximum
Eric McDermid: But he presented
Dr. Belis Aladag: It as such.
Eric McDermid: Correct. And he he he he said that he just, he said, because that sub you text was able able to be abuse.
Eric McDermid: That he didn't like to prescribe it and that he would be switching to Suboxone
Eric McDermid: Okay, which he raised the dose to four pills a day, as well as gave me a prescription for Ambien 10 milligrams of 30 count. Okay, I just made me extremely, extremely uncomfortable so I never went back to him and I, I've just been living off off.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh, cuz he gave you so much. Wow. Correct. That's what because I'm like
Eric McDermid: Man, I still have some sub you Tex fro Dr. Amy.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, I got you. So you just been kind of surviving between the two of those.
Eric McDermid: Okay. Right. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah okay well I'm glad that you had this innate sense of discomfort.
Eric McDermid: Because you because he also is was treating my brother for bipolar.
Eric McDermid: And he ended up giving him 600 milligrams of Wellbutrin a day, as well as I think 150 milligrams of Prozac and it was not good for my brother. He ended up in a psychiatric ward. For the first time in his life. Oh.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Sorry.
Eric McDermid: It just doesn't understand like he understands simple pharmacology whatsoever.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Interesting. I'm sorry.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Mary. Wow. Okay. So yeah, that's not what is your brother. Okay. Now you said he has bipolar. Correct.
Eric McDermid: Yes I do, as well. He got out of the psychiatric
Eric McDermid: psychiatric ward and he ended up switching his doctor to the psychiatrists that I've seen since an adolescent
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, is that this doctor what
Eric McDermid: Trouble with with that practice.
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Is that Dr. Brennan. Correct. Yes. So I see that you're receiving value from Dr. Brennan regular like every 30 days. Yes. Okay. And how much of that. Are you taking
Eric McDermid: I'm prescribed 30 milligrams a day.
Eric McDermid: With the option to take one prescribed for a day, but try to keep it to three a day.
Okay.
Eric McDermid: It's prescribed does take one tablet by mouth four times a day.
Eric McDermid: And he he
Dr. Belis Aladag: He is treating Dr Brendan's been your psychologist, since you were younger, you said
Eric McDermid: Correct since about seven to eight.
Eric McDermid: Oh wow, six or seven yeah I started on Adderall. At the age of four and a half and I continued till the age of 14
Eric McDermid: At the age of 10 I started on just
Eric McDermid: I went through the wringer from the age of 10 to 16 with psychiatric drugs, just trying to see what what would help.
Eric McDermid: And unfortunately, every medication, kind of just left me worse off than I was, or just kind of neutral.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Like antidepressants, or what what kinds of
Eric McDermid: Antidepressants anti-psychotics
Eric McDermid: off label medications.
Eric McDermid: I think I tried over I think she showed me a list of over 35 plus psychiatric medications.
Oh Lord, I went
Eric McDermid: A couple months ago I went went in there just kind of begging for psychiatric medication. And she said, You know, I'm willing to prescribe
Eric McDermid: A psychiatric medication. I just don't think that's something that didn't work. Five years ago, it will magically start working. But if you would like to try
Dr. Belis Aladag: We can try.
Eric McDermid: We'll give it a shot.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I this is Dr.
Eric McDermid: Greg zolty
Eric McDermid: It didn't really work out.
Eric McDermid: Yeah, I tried to fix it didn't work out. It ended up giving me more mood swings kind of made my rapid cycling even more rapid
Eric McDermid: Okay, and then we tried Murtaza pain Rimmer on which was one of the medications that are responding somewhat decently to as a child.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Or adolescent
Eric McDermid: And that one just didn't work out. It was giving me really bad temperature and sensitivities.
Eric McDermid: As well as making my nerve pain, where I had shingles.
Eric McDermid: And where the shingles were on my neck and my ear, which is giving me shooting pains again. So I stopped that. And now we're trying blue box.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Blue Box. Correct.
Eric McDermid: And with the dosing we she's doing it as if I'm basically a toddler okay but I get a 25 milligram tablet break it in half and then break that half and half. And that would be my dose like
Dr. Belis Aladag: A six something six milligrams
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, very small dose because she doesn't want you to have a reaction fix that. Okay.
Eric McDermid: I don't know if you've heard of. She did a liver enzyme test for I think CYP to d six
Uh huh.
Eric McDermid: And
Eric McDermid: It stated that since I was on Adderall, the time that if I were to consume cocaine that I would metabolize Adderall more efficiently.
Eric McDermid: As well as it gave her a huge list of medications that said that I would more than likely have adverse reactions to which it was just like a list of all psychiatric medications and
Dr. Belis Aladag: I say, oh,
Eric McDermid: Yeah, I'm not the best metabolize or
Eric McDermid: I, if I recall. She said one of the wheels is firing up 25% and the other illegal does not firing at all.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I see. So your jeans. There was a genetic check that she did and that that sign a Chrome society Chrome P for 50. Yeah, it's like a thing that helps. It's a something that breaks down different medications or things in the body. So I see. So yours is not very strong or
Dr. Belis Aladag: Expressed much so therefore you are more sensitive, you don't metabolize drugs to all correct
Dr. Belis Aladag: Slow breakdown of medications. I got you.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so that's good to know. Um,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Now,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Let's see. Okay, so this is Dr. Brennan, right, she's managing all this. Okay, so she's that's, I mean, I'm glad that you have somebody that you trust that knows you and like knows all the different 35 meds trying
Eric McDermid: To yeah it was
Eric McDermid: A sigh of relief when I got back into her practice.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, that sounds good. I'm glad in your brother's also being managed there.
Eric McDermid: That he's he's doing a lot better under their care.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So he has bipolar. Does he have any substance problems, substance use disorders.
Eric McDermid: To yes I have two older brothers that excuse me have problems with substance abuse.
Eric McDermid: My middle brother Kyle. He is age 20 2028
Eric McDermid: He, he did opiates prescription painkillers for around two years.
Eric McDermid: And he's been clean for the last three years.
Oh, good.
Eric McDermid: And then I have a brother that is age 30. His name is Neil
Eric McDermid: Unfortunately, he is still doing heroin.
Eric McDermid: He's been doing. He's probably been using
Eric McDermid: Probably, probably for the last 10 years
Eric McDermid: Oh boy. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: It sucks. But yeah, I'm sorry. So these are your brothers do they live in the house with you.
Eric McDermid: Know my brother Kyle. He lives in woodland California. It's about a 45 minute ride from my mother's house in Folsom California and then
Eric McDermid: My eldest brother, Neil. That does heroin. He lives in Chico, California. So it's about an hour and a half away from where we stay. Yeah, he's up up north from us.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I see. And you would your mom in Folsom
Eric McDermid: Correct. I am I go from my mom's house in Folsom in between my girlfriend's house in Roseville
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh, Rosa. Okay. Correct. Gotcha.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Um, how was that area. I recently was in February. I had a chance to go up there to Sacramento and I saw Roseville, I saw Folsom lake that was so pretty. It's
Eric McDermid: Both in length. Very pretty Roseville really nice as well.
Eric McDermid: We just moved here from Chico, and
Eric McDermid: I want to say February of this year.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh, you're new there too. Okay, cool.
Eric McDermid: My girlfriend moved into Roseville about February this year.
Eric McDermid: I really like I really liked the Roseville area.
Eric McDermid: I like the speed limits. It's pretty much 45
Eric McDermid: All around town. So everybody's kind of
Eric McDermid: On ask excuse my language.
Eric McDermid: So I really like the speed limits.
Eric McDermid: I just like how open it is
Eric McDermid: Compared to Sacramento. It doesn't feel as stuffy and yeah
Dr. Belis Aladag: It feels why. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Why, yeah.
Eric McDermid: Folsom. It's okay.
Eric McDermid: There's. Everybody drives like they're the most entitled person in the world.
Eric McDermid: I don't, I don't like that. The traffic's not the best.
Eric McDermid: People are kind of a holes when they're driving. So it could be better, but it could also be worse.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, that's cool. Okay, so I see. And then what about your dad. You haven't mentioned. Your father is he
Eric McDermid: Around he is
Eric McDermid: I don't know how to categorize him, he, he does, he's an opiate addict for sure he, I don't know how he is currently getting an oxy code and prescription. He was flagged for Dr. Shopping.
Eric McDermid: I want to say around 2013 roughly. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: But he's still managing to do
Eric McDermid: Correct. Yes. Wow. You had a I believe a back surgery, as well as a knee replacement surgery. Quite a while ago.
Eric McDermid: And I think he's just been milking
Eric McDermid: Since I mean
Eric McDermid: Everything he can unfortunately
Dr. Belis Aladag: did hit the action start after those surgeries, you think, or you don't know
Eric McDermid: Much or I would say before I've asked my mother and she said that he's always kind of been fucked up, excuse my language, you always kind of been fucked up and
Eric McDermid: She's always known him to be on something. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So he's not in the house or
Eric McDermid: No, he lives in Sacramento.
Eric McDermid: He lives in Sacramento. It's probably about a 15 minute ride from Roseville about a 30 minute ride from Folsom
Eric McDermid: That's actually how my addiction started is
Eric McDermid: My oldest brother, Neil. He would steal handfuls of my dad was getting prescribed morphine.
Eric McDermid: Eight milligram
Eric McDermid: And hydrocodone 10 milligrams
Eric McDermid: And I mean, big, big bottles probably 360 counts.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh my god.
Eric McDermid: And I just remember the first time I ever took opiates. I remember seeing a Ziploc bag like that filled with like the morphine 15 and 30s and the hydrocodone and allotted that's probably about 10 and I took a just a handful
Eric McDermid: And we went to the bookstore borders. I remember getting a Jamba Juice and walking around and getting nauseous.
Eric McDermid: And having to go into the bathroom and throw up. And I was kind of like, Man, I don't, I don't know why they have seen my dad and brother take these pills and don't get why they taken with. They just throw make you want to throw up and it just, it really bad.
Eric McDermid: So I stopped for I stopped for like two weeks didn't really think about it and then went back and
Eric McDermid: Took another handful and that time felt great. And then it started out as like every other weekend type deal because I would go to my mom's for one week or stay with my mom her weekend one weekend then stay with through the week and then the next weekend would be my dad's weekend.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So whenever it was dad's
Eric McDermid: Yeah. And then I was pretty much just had full access to the narcotics.
Eric McDermid: Sins that he had
Dr. Belis Aladag: Since since you were 10 years old.
Eric McDermid: Correct. Wow. And I developed a dependency by the age of 12
Dr. Belis Aladag: And did anyone at between those years figure this out. Like, did your mom. No. Did you say anything. Were you having any other consequences. Besides, you know you acting weird during
Eric McDermid: When you were. It took about a year, year and a half for her to figure for to figure it out as well for my dad even figured out
Eric McDermid: It was once I, as well as my other brothers both started just dumping handfuls of pills and
Eric McDermid: That took about a year and a half for my father to figure it out.
Eric McDermid: Any year now for my mom to figure it out. At which point, she told my dad that he needed to to lock up all of his medications.
Eric McDermid: In a lock box and his solution was to get a basically like a pistol case with the padded phone and he just put his pill bottles in there. So for about another year.
Eric McDermid: He kept the pills in unlock box until
Eric McDermid: He switched to his gun safe, which made it a little bit hard the gun safe was in the pantry in the kitchen, and he had his key, the key on his ring.
Eric McDermid: But that didn't stop my brother and I, when he would be nodding out
Eric McDermid: Sometimes you I wouldn't even have to go to the gun safety. There were literally where he would just sit and watch TV. I mean, sometimes there would be a good like five to 10 pills, just under the under a seat.
Eric McDermid: But we would
Eric McDermid: We would wait till he nodded out or fell asleep in rock, paper, scissors to who's going to army crawl and get grabbed his keys.
Eric McDermid: Yeah.
Oh, wow.
Eric McDermid: So I want to say.
Eric McDermid: I was probably 14 and my mom was taking him to court for child support because he never ever paid it.
Eric McDermid: And I remember my mom making me write down a list of all the medications that I had access to at the time. And I remember going in front of a judge and telling the judge.
Eric McDermid: You know, this is a list of medications. I have access to and have taken before, you know, blah, blah, blah. It's not a good situation.
Eric McDermid: To which at that point.
Eric McDermid: Everything pretty much stayed the same.
Eric McDermid: We still continue to go over there every other weekend.
Eric McDermid: And the pills are still locked up in the gun safe, which made it a little bit harder to get to them.
Dr. Belis Aladag: But not if you pass out which you did. You did. You know, so there was still you still had access to it.
Eric McDermid: Yes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You still so between. So between age 10 and 12 you said it was like every other weekend you develop this kind of dependency, you said, and by
Eric McDermid: Correct by 13 I was taking them every day. I
Eric McDermid: I had to, or else I would get sick and I didn't really know. You know, I didn't know about opiate dependence at 13 I just knew, you know, I feel like crap. If I don't if I don't take these pills.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh my god, that's so crazy. So, okay, by 13 you're taking them daily
Eric McDermid: Daily 1414 I'm in middle school and this girl. She's hounding me all day. I have a headache. I have a headache. Can I have a Viking Viking. And finally, I'm just like, here's here's, here's a Viking and please shut up. I'm actually trying to do my schoolwork, for once,
Eric McDermid: About three hours later.
Eric McDermid: One of the
Eric McDermid: Like playground security guards comes and gets me and says, you know, hey, we're going to the principal's office. What forward. I think you know what I had no idea.
Eric McDermid: I walk into the principal's office.
Eric McDermid: There's a police officer police officer and the principal. He told me to put my backpack on the table in to strip down to my underwear.
Eric McDermid: Oh my god, I had probably a gram marijuana and about six biking in on me.
Well,
Eric McDermid: So ended up getting a felony for the pills.
Eric McDermid: And I was put on probation for, I think, six. Six months know a year.
Eric McDermid: Probation for a year.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Wow.
Eric McDermid: So that kind of slowed down my usage at 14
Eric McDermid: So I would only do it a couple times a month.
Eric McDermid: Because I had to get your analysis on it.
Eric McDermid: But then when that was over. It was right back to stealing my dad's medication, as well as my brother had
Eric McDermid: Found a dealer for oxy cotton 80s.
Eric McDermid: And he was just buying them by the fistfuls
Eric McDermid: And I remember talking to my brother for like two weeks, he was like, I'd really like I really want you to try this oxycodone, but I don't want you getting addicted.
Eric McDermid: You know, if we do, we do. We're going to do this. And that way, blah, blah, blah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Thinking, he can be safe.
Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: This is the only brother, Neil.
Correct.
Eric McDermid: Anyway, so I tried the OC with him for the first time. Amazing.
Eric McDermid: Because snorted 40 milligram
Eric McDermid: And with no tolerance, at the time, but put me on my ass.
Eric McDermid: And then a couple weeks later.
Eric McDermid: He would just, I would wake up and he would go to work and he would leave me like a crushed up at underneath his TV every day for about two years.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And you're going to school, this whole time. Where you going to
Dr. Belis Aladag: Correct, yes. So you finishing high school, but you're like high every day, you're taking this stuff. Wow.
Eric McDermid: So that lasted till about 1616 1717. It was a good two years of free drugs from him, as I remember.
Eric McDermid: And then the op formulation came out.
Eric McDermid: And Roxy code own and every form of oxycodone was just getting too expensive.
Eric McDermid: I remember trying
Eric McDermid: He went to go grab some pills. They didn't have pills, but they had heroin.
Eric McDermid: Or a 20 bag of heroin and
Eric McDermid: I just remember he got home with it. And we've sat there and smoked it for like 40 minutes. It just went on forever. It seemed like
Eric McDermid: And after that it was kind of like, you know,
Eric McDermid: will still get the scenes where where we can for okay price, but I think Aaron's the way to go on this one.
Eric McDermid: So we started smoking it very consistently.
Eric McDermid: At the age of 17
Eric McDermid: And then about two months later.
Eric McDermid: Because my cousin as well. He, he was about
Eric McDermid: I want to say three or four years older than my brother.
Eric McDermid: He was also using with us as well. When we started using heroin.
Eric McDermid: He was around pretty much every time we smile.
Eric McDermid: I can't remember. Whose idea was, I think it was mine actually to go grab some needles.
Eric McDermid: And went to the pharmacy got some needles.
Eric McDermid: Kind of looked up some YouTube videos to try and get an idea and
Dr. Belis Aladag: injected via
Eric McDermid: Injected it and it just got worse from there. I mean you know the story.
Eric McDermid: It was basically Fox smoking it shooting is a lot more cost effective.
Eric McDermid: So, yeah.
Eric McDermid: Yeah, that cousin that used with us. He's now deceased from from using
Eric McDermid: Yet to get a heart transplant from shooting drugs and they told him, you know, if you go and shoot drugs. After his heart transplant, you have a week, two weeks tops tops to live.
Eric McDermid: And probably about five days after the surgery. I think he did a couple injections and a week later, he was gone. Oh.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, wow.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Wow.
Eric McDermid: I think I was at the age of 18
Dr. Belis Aladag: You were 18 when that happened to him.
Via
Dr. Belis Aladag: Wow.
Eric McDermid: So,
Dr. Belis Aladag: He started with you guys. Yes.
Eric McDermid: started shooting with us.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then he ended up in that state. So where were you at 18 then were you still using despite all this stuff happening to him and
Eric McDermid: Yeah, so I was still using it and
Eric McDermid: One of my
Eric McDermid: Excuse me, one of my brothers older older friends had moved out.
Eric McDermid: So my brother had a friend that he went to high school with, and then he moved off to Arizona for a couple years. And then he came back and he was into heroin.
Eric McDermid: So I remember he met up with my brother and I, and then it was just like him. And I just started
Eric McDermid: Oh,
Dr. Belis Aladag: You're on mute.
Eric McDermid: Can you hear me.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Now I can hear you, said he, you are hanging out with him.
Eric McDermid: So his friend and I started hanging out and just kind of using every day.
Eric McDermid: And he had a license in a car. So he was my means of transportation to get to Sacramento or Rancho Cordova to get this stuff.
Eric McDermid: And that lasted
Eric McDermid: Probably I think Tom was 19
Eric McDermid: And then I remember in 2016 and December eight, on December 18
Eric McDermid: I went in to Dr. Len Morrow and
Eric McDermid: Got on paper Dorking treatment.
Eric McDermid: I remember going in and you know he asked me what opioids opiates. I was on at the time and told him methadone and heroin.
Eric McDermid: He said, you know, with the methadone. We're gonna have to wait.
Eric McDermid: 48 to 72 hours before the first dose of buprenorphine.
Eric McDermid: Yeah. And he said,
Eric McDermid: If he said if I was you. And in your area able to obtain it. I would get some morphine and dose that for a day or two and then
Eric McDermid: Stop at night. And then the next day, you should be able to dose of buprenorphine.
Eric McDermid: So that's what I did.
Eric McDermid: I went out and got some morphine.
Eric McDermid: And took that for a day and then the next day I started to be in treatment. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: That was 2017 2016 16 and you were how
Dr. Belis Aladag: I believe 1919 okay
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you're 19, something like that. Okay.
Eric McDermid: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then 2016 then you got on The View. Did you stay sober, or were you using still or will. How did that.
Eric McDermid: I've had about
Eric McDermid: In the last five years, I've had about three slip ups.
Eric McDermid: I had a slip up the first
Eric McDermid: Within the first three months, I think it was the second month of treatment and I broke down into the shop.
Eric McDermid: Of heroin.
Eric McDermid: And I went back to Dr. Morrow and let them know you know i i fucked up.
Eric McDermid: To which at that point.
Eric McDermid: I, I just let them know you know like
Eric McDermid: This this Suboxone is working, but I'm still having cravings.
Eric McDermid: And when I hit it gives me. It's given me a headache and making my blood pressure, blood pressure, very erratic.
Eric McDermid: To it at that point he
Eric McDermid: Suggested that we switched to savvy Tex.
Eric McDermid: No oxygen could be causing the headaches and the blood pressure sensitivity.
Eric McDermid: Perhaps because
Dr. Belis Aladag: Especially because now you're saying about the enzyme thing. I mean, some people are sensitive, it's
Dr. Belis Aladag: Possible. I suppose I used to be kind of a skeptic about that because of the thing, but I'm starting to see that it's not just one offs like there are people that really are sensitive, so you must be one of those
Eric McDermid: Yeah, because with this with the Suboxone I have to dose double the dose that I do have said the text to get the same the same effect.
So let me
Eric McDermid: Know,
Eric McDermid: Yeah, so he switched me to the subtext. He said, hopefully, it should take care of the headaches and the blood pressure, as well as it should. It should be cheaper through your insurance.
Eric McDermid: Okay so started that
Eric McDermid: Worked pretty good still having cravings here and there.
Eric McDermid: And then I had my wisdom teeth extracted. I can't remember the exact year
Eric McDermid: I want to say 2018 2017 maybe
Eric McDermid: No excuse me to 2016 and 2017
Eric McDermid: And I remember they gave me I think Tylenol sixes.
Eric McDermid: For the pain and it just wasn't covering it. So I went out and bought some morphine and some oxy codeine
Eric McDermid: And I would just
Eric McDermid: Basically dose, the morphine and oxy codeine, how they told me to dose. The Tylenol and coding
Eric McDermid: So that happened. I felt insanely guilty for a good three weeks before I came clean to Dr. Morrow and let them know you know I didn't just take the Tylenol with codeine, I went out and I got morphine and oxycodone
Eric McDermid: So I let him know that
Eric McDermid: And he wasn't really too mad at me.
Eric McDermid: He was more
Eric McDermid: I guess just happy that I was open and honest with him about it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes, of course. Yeah.
Eric McDermid: So it went over surprisingly well. Which I didn't think it would
Eric McDermid: So I was the second one, then the third one.
Eric McDermid: It's been so long.
Dr. Belis Aladag: That's good.
Eric McDermid: I remember
Eric McDermid: I remember I slipped up and smoking. Smoking heroin.
Eric McDermid: With my brother.
Eric McDermid: And I went back, I had an appointment. The next month, and I, I let him know that appointment that I slipped up
Eric McDermid: And that I was just
Eric McDermid: I let the cravings, get the best of me.
Eric McDermid: And I just
Eric McDermid: caved in.
Eric McDermid: And that was the last time that I've ever used real opiates pretty. Yeah, I've been on
Eric McDermid: Subjects in Suboxone pretty much ever since that appointment that day except for those three slip ups.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, got it. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And you were saying cravings. I mean those slip ups. I wonder if they were
Dr. Belis Aladag: Also because of, like, were you triggered because of circumstance, like the loan dear brother. Maybe he was around and he was telling you stuff. You know what I mean. So not necessarily that
Dr. Belis Aladag: Left alone taking your medication as directed, maybe you wouldn't necessarily have cravings. It's just that when
Eric McDermid: He was, I think it was
Eric McDermid: More this situation that I was surrounded by yeah i mean i'm still surrounded by the city, those kinds of situations today. I mean, my brother will come to my house to hang out and I know he has
Eric McDermid: Probably 15 grams plus on them.
Eric McDermid: But
Eric McDermid: I just don't I just try not to put myself. I just try and I try not to ask him as much as possible about this stuff.
Eric McDermid: Unless he brings it up.
Eric McDermid: And starts talking about it and then I'll talk about it for a couple minutes in this turn shut it down because yeah
Eric McDermid: You don't want to talk about it. The
Eric McDermid: Higher they're just go
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah.
Eric McDermid: In the faster the thoughts. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah yeah yeah
Eric McDermid: But I've gotten pretty damn good about
Eric McDermid: Not letting his presence affect my state of mind.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Good. So glad
Eric McDermid: It's there's definitely been hard hard to do.
Eric McDermid: Especially since it's my own brother.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And you, I'm sure you're worried about him. Did he
Eric McDermid: Always 24 seven
Eric McDermid: I'm always scared that I'm not on because he's overdose three times and each time I was at our family house and I was there to network and so I'm always nervous. I'm just not going to get an arcane
Eric McDermid: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So did he ever you sought help in 2017. Did he also seek help, or he just wasn't interested or
Eric McDermid: He so he seek help for methadone treatment for about six months, but that was mainly to please my mom and definitely not for foreign cell.
Eric McDermid: So that last six months and then he just got back on the painkillers.
Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Well I hope you can
Dr. Belis Aladag: find his way out of that, you know, yeah.
Eric McDermid: Me too.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I mean, he knows you're in recovery.
Dr. Belis Aladag: He knows you taking this medication, this whole time. Right.
Eric McDermid: Correct, yes. Brothers know
Dr. Belis Aladag: They know and it's working for you.
Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Your other brother. He used to have a problem. But you said he's he's been okay for two years, right, or three years.
Eric McDermid: Correct, yes. About two and a half, three years.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Is he on something, as well as the answer.
Eric McDermid: He's on he's on a program there. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, he's on the A. Okay, so he's got that you've got this, do you also do na na, that kind of thing or
Eric McDermid: I tend to a couple meetings with
Eric McDermid: With my brother Kyle, a couple times a month just to
Eric McDermid: Hear people's stories and, you know,
Eric McDermid: See that I don't have it that bad as other people and I'm
Eric McDermid: Pretty fucking excuse me pretty damn privilege with what I have
Eric McDermid: And it's just a great reality check. Yeah, when I need it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so you do that once in a while.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Wow. What a story.
Dr. Belis Aladag: OK. And then so you finished school and then have you what I mean. High School. And then what it
Dr. Belis Aladag: did end up doing anything. Did you go to college did you work like
Eric McDermid: Anything. No, I finished school in
Eric McDermid: I want to say 2017 I went to. I didn't graduate normal high school, I had to go to an adult ed program, which I got my dim only needed think 20 credits. So I just did the 20 credits and got my high school diploma.
Eric McDermid: And after that I laid around for about six months before I before I was just so tired linger on every day that I had to go out and get a job.
Eric McDermid: So I started working at Starbucks.
Eric McDermid: Probably for about a year. Okay.
Eric McDermid: And then I I met my girlfriend on the internet. And I went, I flew to Florida to visit her for two weeks. Oh.
Eric McDermid: And then
Eric McDermid: About two months later I ended up moving to Florida.
Eric McDermid: Okay, two years before I moved back to California.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I got you. Okay. See, that's how
Dr. Belis Aladag: Serious Florida with her.
Eric McDermid: Work the correct and working at Starbucks.
Eric McDermid: Worked for about a year and then my girlfriend needed to we we thought that she was just going into possibly getting the Malaysian done on her heart.
Eric McDermid: And she ended up having to get a pacemaker a pacemaker defibrillator installed.
Eric McDermid: For
Dr. Belis Aladag: She's yeah you
Eric McDermid: Correct, yes, she's 2021
Eric McDermid: Oh, wow. Unfortunately, she has mitochondrial disease.
Eric McDermid: Okay, as well as gastroparesis
Eric McDermid: Vascular Ehlers download syndrome.
Eric McDermid: Oh wow, quite a, quite a few genetic genetic illnesses and diseases.
Eric McDermid: So the, the
Eric McDermid: pacemakers was installed.
Eric McDermid: And
Eric McDermid: That that day that the pacemaker was installed. I got let go from Starbucks. I remember going in, I believe, to get a check and then the new month schedule.
Eric McDermid: To which at that point the not to the store manager informed me that I was going to be let go for
Eric McDermid: For being late. I was late three times about five minutes to which I called an advanced and, you know, let them know, Hey, I'm going to be five minutes late.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Still
Eric McDermid: And I guess that doesn't fly in Florida.
Eric McDermid: Yeah.
Eric McDermid: Yeah, so I got let go. And I've been unemployed since
Dr. Belis Aladag: OK, I see.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then, and then your, your girlfriend moved to Roseville
Eric McDermid: Correct, yes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then, and she with her family or she's there by herself.
Eric McDermid: She's, she's here with her family. She had she's living with her mother, as well as her
Eric McDermid: Older brother. He is. He's 25 and he's nonverbal autistic. Unfortunately, and she helps take care of her brother, as well as I do this much.
Dr. Belis Aladag: NICE. THAT'S GOOD TO HAVE YOU GUYS. It's not easy.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Wow. Yes, for the mom to her mom and sure that's hard.
Eric McDermid: Especially right now with all the lack of services and everything. It's
Eric McDermid: Not the easiest
Dr. Belis Aladag: I bet I didn't even think about that. Yeah, with the coven
Dr. Belis Aladag: I see. So they're here, you moved back
Dr. Belis Aladag: OK, so maybe though, you will start looking. I mean once things that open because of coven you know it's like Starbucks isn't exactly like the food industry is gonna, you know, hard to
Dr. Belis Aladag: Gradually, everything's kind of up in the air right now.
Eric McDermid: I mean, what I'd really like to start doing
Eric McDermid: Is I'd like to go to school to
Eric McDermid: Basically climb up power lines and fix them and repair them. I have a, I have a cousin who does that. And he makes I think 45 an hour plus insane hazard pay the
Dr. Belis Aladag: linemen
Eric McDermid: I think they're correct yes he's
Dr. Belis Aladag: Just but but yes they make good money and but it's it's a tough and dangerous job, you have to be very careful.
Dr. Belis Aladag: But if
Dr. Belis Aladag: You said your cousin, does it
Eric McDermid: Correct, yes. And he he bought two houses and three cars in one month.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So yeah, asking for training, I guess, but yeah.
Eric McDermid: I guess you just, you go to school for about 10 months and study and learn everything and then
Eric McDermid: They let you go on the job.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, okay. Yeah.
Eric McDermid: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Sign up and then if for whatever reason you don't feel confident or comfortable, then you can always back off, but
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's something can train to do well and carefully that's
Eric McDermid: I love it. I love adrenaline surging, things like that.
Eric McDermid: And I think it would be a pretty good fit.
Dr. Belis Aladag: good fit.
Eric McDermid: I guess we'll see when I actually get up there.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And you need sunscreen and a hat. You know, because you're always up in the sun.
Eric McDermid: Yeah, getting smacked by branches and
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, that too. Okay. Well, I like that. At least you have like some thought of. Okay, maybe I want to do some
Dr. Belis Aladag: Little yeah yeah it's a thought, okay, and then the bipolar disorder. Do you feel like right now it's kind of well controlled or have
Eric McDermid: Yes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Recent manic episode or a depressive episode.
Eric McDermid: I do every once in once in a while.
Eric McDermid: But it's it's not to the point
Eric McDermid: It's to the point where I can pull myself out of it and kind of use.
Eric McDermid: Like just asking myself questions like why do I feel so anxious
Eric McDermid: Okay, I feel anxious about having to go to the store and get groceries. Why do I feel anxious about having to go get groceries. Oh, I mean come into contact with people.
Eric McDermid: I may have a panic attack.
Eric McDermid: You know, I just try and ask myself these questions by destroying talk it out with myself.
Eric McDermid: And just trying to tell myself you know like
Eric McDermid: You're getting anxious over all the wrong reasons.
Eric McDermid: And ask yourself these questions and answer them. That is most likely not going to happen and
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yourself and calm yourself down.
Eric McDermid: Correct. So that self talking
Eric McDermid: Really helps me get out of depressive episodes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh,
For sure.
Eric McDermid: Because when I get a depressive episode, I just want to lay in bed and stare at the wall where the back of my eyelids.
Eric McDermid: But I recently started learning to play guitar and that's been a that's been
Eric McDermid: priceless for my mental health.
Eric McDermid: Yeah, whenever I feel down or
Eric McDermid: I was gonna, I was gonna say, I love your guitar.
Dr. Belis Aladag: But unlike you, I never. I mean, I started the YouTube videos, there's this guy. Andy guitar.
Eric McDermid: Yeah, oh yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: But I started and then I just need to get back in. Now you're reminding
Eric McDermid: So you're saying all right.
Eric McDermid: I totally feel. Yeah. Whenever I get
Eric McDermid: Really down or really up
Eric McDermid: The guitar really really helps a lot or sure
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, it's, it's a good things for motivating me. I gotta, I gotta get pick it back up. Because, you know, you have to keep practicing to keep remembering what the chords are whatever
Eric McDermid: I want to show you my guitar. It's, it's pretty crazy. My dad. Let me borrow it. He has over 100 guitars and I'm not even joking. Oh.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh my god, look at that.
Eric McDermid: Like this part.
Eric McDermid: Wow, but as of other Picard.
Eric McDermid: It's really cool.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Who is lending this to
Eric McDermid: My father
Dr. Belis Aladag: Your father
Eric McDermid: Yes, he has a, like a
Eric McDermid: An he calls it his guitar rooms library he he easily over has over 100 really nice guitars, it's, it's crazy. But it's an absolute dream since I've since I've started playing man I'm kicking myself in the butt. I wish I would have started years ago.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Has he been is he does he play or he used to play or
Eric McDermid: He doesn't play
Eric McDermid: He, he likes to dink around he doesn't really he hasn't really taken the time to really learn to really try and learn it.
Eric McDermid: I think are actually no longer than
Like
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know more than
Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: That's so great. You have a whole treasure trove, then
Eric McDermid: That's exactly because if save
Eric McDermid: I don't know when. Whenever I get bored of that guitar or I go online, or watching music video and see one I can be like a dad, I saw this or that guitar and you'll be like, oh yeah, we got that you can come and get whatever you like. So it's
Eric McDermid: It's, it's amazing to have
Eric McDermid: A guitar library.
Eric McDermid: Yeah, I love it, I love it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm so glad. See, there's such a positive thing there.
Eric McDermid: Exactly yeah I
Dr. Belis Aladag: Know that you can share. That's cool. I like that. That's good. Very healthy hobby. Okay, good. So you got to pick yourself up, you use the self talk to do that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And, you know, it sounds like you've been in like treatment for psychiatric stuff since a very young age. So you're well versed in you know like techniques and things. I guess I'm okay and you have Dr. Brennan, how often are you going to see Dr.
Brennan.
Eric McDermid: Every month every month. I see here
Dr. Belis Aladag: Do you have any allergies to medication that I should put down or
Dr. Belis Aladag: Not, not outright allergy. Right. Correct. Okay. Um, and then medication wise, I'm thinking that we should I know you have extras and things. But when we want. I mean, whenever you feel ready. I think we should start doing the, I guess the sub you text because you're kind of sensitive
Eric McDermid: To dollar on your amazing
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, we can do that. We can do the subtext.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And you think that would be eight milligrams twice a day, you think that would be your
Eric McDermid: Style.
Eric McDermid: Yeah, that would keep me stable. Because realistically I are used 12 to 14 milligrams a day and then like if I'm, if I wake up super early and I'm having a pretty you know long day. I will
Eric McDermid: I'll take, say, four to eight milligrams in the morning and then about six hours later, another four milligrams. And then if it's a long day another six hours later, another formula games. So it would only go up to the 16 milligrams a day.
Eric McDermid: When somebody talks with
Dr. Belis Aladag: Scott. Okay. I'm also going to prescribes especially with your brothers situations and stuff. It's good to have is the Narcan
Eric McDermid: Thank you.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, and I'll put some refills on that in case you want more around
Amazing.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And this is going to CBS on Pleasant Grove.
Eric McDermid: Correct, yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Bro Boulevard. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So I'll do that. Okay, so for the Soviet tax.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, eight milligram
Dr. Belis Aladag: Or 60 milligrams a day and you're saying, You do like have
Eric McDermid: Either one. Or yeah, kind of staggering.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Staggering should I say, I'll just run it as twice a day eight milligrams twice.
Eric McDermid: On here it's written as dissolve one tablet by mouth sublingual e twice daily. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Twice. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so we can do that. And then the way our treatment program works is we do so this like this doctor's visit
Dr. Belis Aladag: From now on, is going to be, you'll see me, but you'll see me in a group setting. So there will be other patients with you who are mostly most of my patients right now are on some form of buprenorphine.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So they'll be kind of similar, you know, doing a similar treatment. And so I do a check. And I'd say, Okay. So Eric, how was your week
Dr. Belis Aladag: Mood good cravings whatever any changes in your meds that we need whatever any updates and if not, then I would give you another prescription
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then move on to the next person and whatever. And I take care of all that. And then there's a therapist with me who helps me the rest of the time to run a group like a recovery.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Theme. Usually it's something that we can all relate to, like, I don't know, how do we deal with boredom, or how do we, you know, deal with triggers, whatever.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, something and it's it's been fun. It's been actually interesting as a physician, I normally see patients one on one.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes, I'm new to Tele health I'm new to the bright heart as well.
Dr. Belis Aladag: As new Iser yeah
Dr. Belis Aladag: So it's a new concept for me like seeing multiple patients together. And I'm like, Well, what about privacy and stuff, but it's worked out. I think people are respectful of each other's privacy. They understand the group stuff stays in the group. There's nothing. No one does outside
Dr. Belis Aladag: And so yeah hopefully you'll like it as well. I think it's good. And then people can chime in, like if you had an experience and someone's like, yeah, I'm getting
Dr. Belis Aladag: Even something medical like I'm feeling constipated, you can. I'm in and be like, actually, you know, I tried whatever prune juice and it worked for me and whatever you
Eric McDermid: LIKE. BERNIE YEAH WELL.
Eric McDermid: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's helpful and it's it's fun.
Dr. Belis Aladag: People, it's it's really nice to see, you know, I think that's the magic of the group is just some sort of camaraderie that randomly happens
Dr. Belis Aladag: So it's good. So that's what we do. We do weekly
Dr. Belis Aladag: And I'm so that takes care of, like, a weekly doctor's visit and a weekly group therapy, visit
Eric McDermid: And one was pretty cool to me.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah. Yeah, it's good. And then, and then you're assigned your own therapist.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Within bright heart. So the first visit with that therapist, you need to schedule. So you need to tell like called a virtual clinic and say, hey, okay. I saw the doctor. Now I need to schedule the therapists.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And that first therapy visit, they will do like an assessment, like a bio psychosocial they call it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: At that point, they'll tell you you and that person will decide, okay, yeah, maybe we should do monthly therapy or we should do, every other week, or whatever. Every we, you know, whatever your needs are.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah. Um, but you should you need to do that at least that first assessment to kind of
Eric McDermid: Fear them.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, definitely. So I'll ask you to schedule that therapy, visit
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then just remember the drug test. So the drug testing happens once a month, the mail you something you keep it you don't open it you call the virtual clinic, you show them. You open it, go to the bathroom. They don't come with you.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You should show them like your temperature or whatever, you know,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, it's just something to remind you that, like you're being monitored and you're in a program, you know, just keep you on your
Dr. Belis Aladag: Thing and, you know, just like you told your old older exposition about your slips, you know you need. I hope you understand that I'm here to I'm not here to judge. I'm here to help.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And so if if there's a some close call or something like just definitely tell me so that we can work around it. We can figure out why did this happen and how can we prevent it does a med need to be increased like
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so
Eric McDermid: So don't feel so basically just be honest and
Eric McDermid: Yeah, be real with you.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Be real and I'm here to help you know and
Dr. Belis Aladag: As long as you know your intentions are clear and you're like, I want to be sober. I wanted, you know, then I'm here to help you do that, you know,
Eric McDermid: Can I be real with you for a second.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Sure.
Eric McDermid: I did have a slip up in the last two weeks.
Eric McDermid: My brother came my brother came down
Eric McDermid: And since I've been low on medications and trying to stretch it as far as possible. I told you know what, let me let me take a hit of that.
Eric McDermid: And I ended up taking a couple of heroin.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And when when
Eric McDermid: You wanted to be 100% honest with
Dr. Belis Aladag: You thank you for telling me.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And when did this happen last week or
Eric McDermid: The date.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Today well
Eric McDermid: I want to say about two Fridays ago to find
Dr. Belis Aladag: Like the first the first
Eric McDermid: Part. Yeah, probably about the first or the third
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, I did.
Eric McDermid: I yeah
Eric McDermid: I think
Eric McDermid: For telling smoke.
Eric McDermid: Like I didn't smoke or buy it like a smoke a lot but I definitely did smoke some just yeah I feel really, really guilty.
Eric McDermid: But I just wanted to be 100% honest with you.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Thank you. You know that starting off on the right foot, which I think says a lot about your character. And I think that will also be
Dr. Belis Aladag: Something important for your recovery, you know, just saying, hey, I'm starting off on a completely honest, start and I'm just going to keep doing that because it's honestly for you honestly like
Eric McDermid: That's why I wanted to tell you I didn't want to
Eric McDermid: Sit here and
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah yeah
Eric McDermid: To go what I do, but leaving something out.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Thank you. Thank you for sharing that. I really appreciate the honesty and the vulnerability
Eric McDermid: Sorry.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Did you use, you mentioned that the medication was you were trying to stretch it and stuff so you aren't taking as much as you would so
Dr. Belis Aladag: Your brain was like a, maybe I can feel it right because if you take an what you're supposed to. Am I wrong. I mean, it's supposed to be pretty stuck on your receptor. So if you do use you don't feel
Eric McDermid: Yeah, if, if
Eric McDermid: If I was on my actual bills, it would take probably
Eric McDermid: A lot of money. Probably about $100
Dr. Belis Aladag: To try to
Eric McDermid: Even maybe feel something.
Eric McDermid: Okay, it would take. Yeah, like a gram
Dr. Belis Aladag: So, so it's an it's a disincentive
Dr. Belis Aladag: To be using when you're on your Medicare
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, you need to be on the right dose and you need to be taking it regularly not skipping and not changing it around too much and because your mind can play tricks on you like that, like, Oh, I haven't out and you know and the opportunities like oh
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know yeah rationalizes
Eric McDermid: Yeah, the way I rationalized it was, um, I'm trying to stretch the medication as far as possible. I'm on the low, the low is still say never been on
Eric McDermid: You know,
Eric McDermid: I'm feeling kind of crappy. You know, maybe, maybe this stuff might actually work and I might feel good for an hour.
Eric McDermid: But
Eric McDermid: It wasn't
Dr. Belis Aladag: It wasn't worth
Eric McDermid: Worth wasn't worth the way that I feel about it.
Eric McDermid: Yeah, for sure.
Eric McDermid: Because now I feel like
Eric McDermid: A failure complete should
Dr. Belis Aladag: Well, you're not because you're here and you're talking to me and you're telling me everything from the very beginning. And you're telling me this this event, you know, and that's
Dr. Belis Aladag: That's huge. It's we're human beings, you know, we're not NOBODY'S PERFECT. NOBODY follows like 100% one path. You know, we deviate. And then we come back. It's the strength
Dr. Belis Aladag: Your strength is in the coming back to, like, okay, yeah. No, I'm not going to stray off into this. I'm coming back, like I need to do this. And so don't beat yourself up.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Please, don't you know and then but but this is a good reminder and like kind of learning lesson for you that like it is really important for you. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: It is really important for you to have your boundaries with certain people
Eric McDermid: Yeah, definitely.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Right.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Even if Emily members, you need to just be very
Dr. Belis Aladag: upfront about your boundaries and you may even want to say something like, you know, would you mind not talking about that stuff or not bringing it around.
Eric McDermid: If you're gonna come over, you know, leave it at home.
Eric McDermid: Please.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Because I really feel disappointed in myself. It's not. Yeah. And you can say this has nothing to do with my view of view. I'm not judging you. But for me, like, I worked really hard to
Dr. Belis Aladag: Be doing this and be healthy, like I got it. You know, so, so I don't know, have some conversation.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then same thing with your dad. If he's still keeping stuff laying around. You know, I don't know. Just the thought. You don't want to irritate and cause a fight, but at the same time, you should be very clear, especially if you're going to allow yourself to go to those spaces.
Yeah.
Eric McDermid: I think my father's house, it's, it's a pretty good.
Eric McDermid: Setup as he actually does keep his medications in a gun safe in his bathroom whenever any of us any of the three of us come over
Eric McDermid: They automatically go in there and get locked up and we don't know the combo.
Eric McDermid: Okay, we're not allowed in his room without him or his girlfriend supervision.
Okay.
Eric McDermid: But I think I just had a really bad.
Eric McDermid: This week, and yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, you know, it happens. But hey, we're here. You're starting your
Eric McDermid: I didn't wanna
Eric McDermid: I didn't want to start, start off the treatment feeling like this or wanting to
Dr. Belis Aladag: Thank you. I think you did the right thing, you know, and just, just let it off your chest and just really
Eric McDermid: Really hard but I'm really glad that I told you.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Need to
Eric McDermid: Thank you for
Eric McDermid: Thank you for not judging.
Eric McDermid: Course, really appreciate
Dr. Belis Aladag: Not judging. Not at all. I and if anything, I, I commend you for your courage and, you know,
Dr. Belis Aladag: And being so forthright especially with you just, you know, we just met, and you might you might have been like, Well, what are you know, but you didn't you really push yourself to say it, and I appreciate that. I know that took a lot. So I get it, and I appreciate that. Don't worry.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. And so hopefully moving forward, you'll feel the same way, like if there's ever any
Dr. Belis Aladag: Thoughts coming in, like, that's the kind of stuff we want to talk about it when we're checking in with each other at the groups like hey how's the week like that anything happened. Did someone come over
Eric McDermid: Did you start having
Dr. Belis Aladag: Your thoughts and, you know, because we want to avoid.
Dr. Belis Aladag: pitfalls.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so, so I have the order in it's going to be the buprenorphine only tablets. The eight milligrams. Right. And we got one tab twice a day. So, for
Dr. Belis Aladag: One week so so when are we doing groups with you. So there's two
Dr. Belis Aladag: There's some options we have a
Dr. Belis Aladag: We have a Thursday 4pm group.
Eric McDermid: That sounds pretty good.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Does that sound good.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Eric German yeah there's Thursday 4pm. I was gonna say also Friday for PM, but I think
Dr. Belis Aladag: Like the people in Thursday group. I mean, they're all cool but
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, okay. So we'll just try it. Let's try and start with Thursday for now.
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So,
Eric McDermid: I wrote it down in my calendar. Excellent.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So I will all I'm going to send you an email shortly to remind you of your time, but it's in your thing. That's good. And so if it's 4pm group, you want to check in with the so our front desk where normally you would go to a doctor and check in.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Our front desk is the virtual clinic.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, you want to go to the virtual clinic by zoom
Dr. Belis Aladag: Like, I would say, especially the first time go half an hour before so like okay 30
Dr. Belis Aladag: You should try to check in. Because I've heard from patients, you know, sometimes I call the virtual clinic and there's like a sweet time for 10 minutes or whatever.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you don't want to do that at four, when you're trying to get in. Right, so do it at 330 get into virtual clinic, they will probably, especially the first time and give you a kind of lengthier survey about, like, how was your cravings. This week, and whatever.
Dr. Belis Aladag: The future surveys are not as lengthy, but still you have a survey and then they give you a group number. They're like, Okay, here's the zoom number for today's group.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You just tell them that you're there for Dr. Allah dogs 4pm group and they can help you. Okay, so that's it. So I'll give you enough medication to cover you through then
Dr. Belis Aladag: So that's just actually Today's Tuesday. So that's in a couple days.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, yeah. Okay, awesome.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So pretty excited. Yeah. It'll be fun. It'll be good. And then I will
Dr. Belis Aladag: Ask you to just
Dr. Belis Aladag: Call virtual clinic at some point and get that therapy session scheduled. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, that's the only other thing, and then bloodwork. Oh, I don't know if you have a quest slab near you. If you do
Eric McDermid: And believe so.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, just look it up, see about the openings with coven I you know there might be some changes with openings and stuff. Just see about it. It's not like an emergency, but I'd like you to get it done at some point in the
Eric McDermid: Near
Eric McDermid: As soon as possible.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, because they do a one time urine testing there and the blood test and it just, it's good. It checks for you know STDs and your liver taking buprenorphine for a while now, it's good to see how your livers doing because it does process through there.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And you mentioned the side of things. So it's just good to check
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, okay.
Eric McDermid: And so if
Eric McDermid: That heroin does show up in my your analysis. You guys aren't gonna be like
Eric McDermid: You know, we can't help you.
Dr. Belis Aladag: No, not at all. I, I'm here to help you. And I understand and
You know,
Eric McDermid: Yeah, I just didn't want that to, you know, be a surprise.
Eric McDermid: Another surprise.
Dr. Belis Aladag: For you. Yeah, no, I mean, I, I will not hold it against you, especially since you talk to me about what's what's happened
Dr. Belis Aladag: And in the future, if anything like that pops up what I usually what I've been doing is, if that happens, I usually
Dr. Belis Aladag: Unless the person wants to talk about it in group which is great, you know. Hey guys, this is what happened you know whatever and just talk about it, which is fine.
Dr. Belis Aladag: But if I see something and the person is not saying anything, then I would say, Hey, you know, Eric.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Can you book an individual appointment with me later this week, I need to talk to you about something or whatever. And then we talked about it individually, like, Hey, what happened, you're thinking like
Dr. Belis Aladag: So that's kind of how I been managing any, anything like that.
Eric McDermid: Okay, awesome.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Like I said no.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Problem solve it doesn't mean your treatment is over. It just means we got to talk like
Eric McDermid: Are you
Dr. Belis Aladag: What's going on, you know,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Definitely. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So don't worry. So yeah, the narc, can you know how to use it as the spray in the nose thing I ordered that there's three refills.
Dr. Belis Aladag: That you can get more
Dr. Belis Aladag: I got you the tablets ordered. I actually gave you
Dr. Belis Aladag: I messed that up a bit, but that's okay. I gave you 16 tablets, which is okay. Beyond Thursday, but that's okay. On Thursday, all still prescribed more so that you're covered till the following Thursday. So let's remember that remind me that you still need more to cover you for the next week.
Eric McDermid: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Cuz you're going to be short. A couple days. If I don't give you more.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Eric McDermid: And then I believe I have
Eric McDermid: 1231234555 and a half seven tax.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh, you do. Okay.
Eric McDermid: Correct.
Dr. Belis Aladag: If you have a half
Eric McDermid: So, you know,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, it's good to have that that cushion.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you actually would be okay because you're going to do to a day. Right.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Correct almost you almost be okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Maybe two days and that's it two days.
Eric McDermid: Here.
Eric McDermid: I just want to let you know. So you know if if I have a couple extra days that's why
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, got it. No problem. So, but we should still give you let me order it. So remind me we should still order your like a couple days worth so that at least I'm I want to keep it on track at the same weekly
Thank you.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Any questions. Oh, I didn't ask you about any suicidal thoughts. Any suicidal ideation in the past or current
Eric McDermid: In the past, but not recently.
Not recently.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Any attempt actual attempts or anything.
Eric McDermid: In the past I believe my last attempt. I want to say is probably around 2015 okay
Dr. Belis Aladag: Did you have others before then attempts
Eric McDermid: Correct. I've had 333 hospitalizations in total.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Each time it led to a hospitalization.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes. Okay, and what what was going what happened in 2015 was that were you taking pills.
Eric McDermid: Or what we're yes I took a took us 20 count Norco and I drink a 750 milliliter bottle of vodka.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So in terms of yeah other substances we didn't touch upon that. But you are you are you sober from everything else to marijuana
Eric McDermid: Marijuana I use marijuana
Eric McDermid: almost daily about every other day.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Eric McDermid: But it definitely helps. My bipolar.
Eric McDermid: Especially when manic, it helps me kind of brings me down a little bit.
Eric McDermid: Okay, I'm not flying so high. And then if I'm depressed. It helps me just helps me kind of break out of that depression, a little bit faster than without it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So, you know, it doesn't work. Make your anxiety worse or anything, it's not you don't feel it's problematic.
Eric McDermid: No, I don't. I don't feel like it's problematic for my anxiety because I really only use it.
Eric McDermid: When I'm having
Eric McDermid: Like an episode, like a manic or depressive episode.
Eric McDermid: Or at night, basically.
Eric McDermid: Or use it at night to help me kind of relax.
Eric McDermid: Get ready for bed.
Eric McDermid: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes, that. How about alcohol no alcohol. Right.
Eric McDermid: No Alcohol if I if I drink I pretty much have almost like benzo like withdrawals and about like two to three hours after the alcohol. So I just stay away from it.
Yeah.
Eric McDermid: No.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Medication. I don't want
Eric McDermid: Yeah, no.
Eric McDermid: I don't even like to drink at a family occasion once in a while. It's, it's just not for me. And it's not worth it.
Eric McDermid: In my opinion,
Eric McDermid: And then, you know, do you start
Eric McDermid: Sir, I think you do.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, maybe. So for the raping if you wanted to, because you know there's risks with that too, with the pneumonia is that came out and stuff. So we could try in if you're interested, just let me know. We can do like lozenges nicotine laws and just or nicotine gum or something to kind of
Dr. Belis Aladag: Open that and get off the vapor
Eric McDermid: Just one. Oh, definitely.
Eric McDermid: Yeah, I'd be interested in
Eric McDermid: Pretty bad cough.
Eric McDermid: Let's yeah
Dr. Belis Aladag: Let's yeah if you're, if you want to start this process. Yeah, let's do it. So I'll give you, do you think you want the laws and the candy. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, people like that. I think better than
Eric McDermid: Having to chew on something.
Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm going to say, okay,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Use one was
Dr. Belis Aladag: Needed as needed for
Dr. Belis Aladag: Cigarette cravings. But you know what I mean, you're
Here.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm going to say, Do not exceed. So how much are you being you think
Eric McDermid: All the time. Oh yeah, all day long.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Okay. So I'm going to say, Do not exceed 10 because 10 lozenges would equal a pack of cigarettes. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you don't want to go over 10
Eric McDermid: You know. Yeah, definitely. I know.
Dr. Belis Aladag: A lot of nicotine, you don't need that.
Definitely
Dr. Belis Aladag: Just pop a Jolly Ranchers that in between, you know,
Eric McDermid: Oh yeah, I didn't think about that. That's a good idea.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, I mean,
Eric McDermid: No.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Long as you're brushing your teeth and
Eric McDermid: Oh god like Clark.
Eric McDermid: OCD is my best friend.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh, OK. OK, so I don't need to worry about candy for you then.
Dr. Belis Aladag: No. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Hundred and I'll send that and then you said your name.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Alright, so we did that. So in terms of the suicidal saw applauds. You're saying that was in the past, last time was 2015
Dr. Belis Aladag: You don't feel at risk right now. So like
Dr. Belis Aladag: low, moderate, severe risk you would put yourself low risk.
Eric McDermid: Put myself flow.
Eric McDermid: And if I do get down and depressed out call my mother or father or my brother, especially Kyle He's really since he has bipolar and and you know under knows what it's like to
Eric McDermid: Know how I feel.
Eric McDermid: Him and I are pretty almost in constant communication.
Eric McDermid: calling each other and saying, you know, like, hey, I feel like this and then the other one will try and talk about it and just talk it out.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Eric McDermid: So he's been very helpful when I do get down and have a depressive episode.
Eric McDermid: He's been a big part of my support system.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm glad that's good. Okay, good. So you have that and
Dr. Belis Aladag: And you mentioned you're trying to lose box right with the doctor.
Eric McDermid: Corrupt
Dr. Belis Aladag: Are you still on Murtaza team.
Dr. Belis Aladag: No. No. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Alright, so just walks
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: All right, got it. Okay, any questions for me any review of systems, meaning like like do you have chronic stomach aches or chest pains or shortness of breath or
Eric McDermid: I do have
Eric McDermid: Coming, I am diagnosed with sick like vomiting syndrome.
Oh,
Eric McDermid: Two, which I do take promethazine as well at night.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So has anyone talk to you about the link between that and marijuana
Eric McDermid: Yes, we my gastroenterologist we he had me stop for a month.
Eric McDermid: And it
Eric McDermid: made it worse.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh, okay. So you really honestly tried for a month now I
Eric McDermid: Know I really did. It was back in two
Eric McDermid: Early 2018 because that yeah I had a endoscopy and colonoscopy, where they didn't use enough drugs. And I remember the whole thing. It was not fun.
Eric McDermid: I remember we stopped for two months before that we stopped for a month. And then I went back to see him and let him know how the how I was doing
Eric McDermid: And he really thought that it was the marijuana that was causing it, and it ended up not being
Eric McDermid: So he advised me to get back on.
Dr. Belis Aladag: The cannabis. Okay. Okay. I'm glad that you tried because there is that there is a syndrome, actually, because of
Eric McDermid: The men were it causes the nausea and
Dr. Belis Aladag: Paradoxical thing that happens.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, not, not for you. Okay, got it. So you take promethazine once in a while for that.
Correct. Okay.
Eric McDermid: And if it's
Eric McDermid: Really, really bad. I will go to an urgent care and usually get a shot in a muscle of the Finnegan
Eric McDermid: Yeah.
Gotcha.
Eric McDermid: Trying to think if there's anything else.
Eric McDermid: I think we've covered everything stick with vomiting.
Eric McDermid: The opiate history. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: The bipolar.
Eric McDermid: Bipolar time and the
Eric McDermid: Blue Box. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Those two. Anything else for the bipolar. Those are the two
Eric McDermid: Those are the two at the moment.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, and you're working with Dr. Brennan. Yeah, I think, I think we got everything any surgeries that I need to write down. No.
Dr. Belis Aladag: No, just the wizard wisdom teeth you meant
Eric McDermid: Correct, yes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, all right, Eric. So I'll see you just in a couple days. We'll see you know you'll see the group, you'll get to know people and their stories too and
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's an hour long, so it's, you know, it takes your focus for an hour. But I think it's worth it. So,
Eric McDermid: I'm glad you're part of into our
Dr. Belis Aladag: Group and I'll see you then. Remember to call and schedule the therapy appointment. And that's, that's all you need to worry about. I will email you reminders.
Eric McDermid: Okay, I'm gonna write down schedule.
Eric McDermid: P
Eric McDermid: And then
Eric McDermid: We have the appointment on me see.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, put it down for 330 on Thursday.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then your medication has been sent into your pharmacy. So just so you know.
Eric McDermid: Wednesday 330 on Wednesday.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Thursday. Thursday.
Eric McDermid: Oh, sorry about Thursday. Yes.
Thursday.
Eric McDermid: Okay.
Eric McDermid: Saved my calendar for Thursday at 3:30pm and to call and schedule a therapy.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm just perfect. And I will email you at the ER i dot McDermott right
Eric McDermid: Yes, please.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, God, I just sending it right now. So you have that in your box in basket. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Nice meeting you. See you soon.
Eric McDermid: It was nice to meet you all.
Eric McDermid: Have a great day and be safe.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You too.
Eric McDermid: Bye bye. Thank you. Bye.